# Few-Shot Fine-Grained Visual Classification using Coarse-Grained Supervision

Fine-grained visual classification tasks are both difficultto solve, due to the subtle class distinctions inherent to theproblem, and highly desirable to be automated due to thehigh  cost  of  employing  skilled  human  experts  capable  ofperforming  the  classification.   Current  best  practices  fortraining a high performing classification model for difficultvision problems necessitates the collection of large train-ing datasets.  For fine-grained domains,  this subsequentlyrequires the involvement of highly skilled human experts, aprohibitively expensive cost for some applications.  In thiswork we explore few-shot fine-grained visual classificationusing strong supervision from coarse-grained models.  Weassume that generic detection, segmentation, and keypointlocalization  models  are  at  our  disposal,  as  none  of  thesemodels require expert curated training data.  We then usethe outputs of these models to simplify the fine-grained vi-sual classification problem by removing nuisance variablessuch as object location, occlusion, and pose.  Using an off-the-shelf pretrained ResNet50 feature extractor, our exper-iments on the CUB200 dataset show that we can increasetop-1 accuracy using 1 training image for each class from0.18 to 0.27. Using 5 training images our method improvestop-1 accuracy from 0.42 to 0.54. We also run experimentsthat  compare  ImageNet  pretrained  features  to  iNaturalistpretrained features.  Using an iNaturalist pretrained modeland our strong preprocessing methods we see an improve-ment to 0.56 top-1 accuracy using 1 image for each class, a3x improvement over the simple ImageNet feature baseline
